@article{haurogne4925500advanced,
  title={Advanced Vulnerability Detection Using Llm with Transparency Obligation Practice Towards Trustworthy Ai},
  author={Haurogn{\'e}, Jean and Basheer, Nihala and Islam, Shareeful},
  journal={Available at SSRN 4925500}
}

# Abstract:
Vulnerabilities in the source code are the primary causes of potential threats in software systems. There are a large number of vulnerabilities published each day, and effective vulnerability detection is critical to identifying and mitigating these vulnerabilities. AI has emerged as a promising solution to enhance vulnerability detection. However, AI-based methods often face challenges with large datasets and understanding the problem's specific context. In this context, the industry and research communities now widely consider the Large Language Model (LLM) to tackle more complex tasks and large datasets. However, LLM also exhibits limitations in terms of explaining the model outcome for a specific context due to its black box nature. To address this challenge, this research introduces an advanced vulnerability detection approach using LLMs, specifically the BERT model. Additionally, the approach introduces key dimensions of transparency obligations, model outcome and explainability, which ensure the transparency of decision-making and trustworthy AI practice. We address the black-box nature of LLMs by employing XAI techniques, particularly SHAP to provide clear explanations for the model’s decisions. We propose an architecture that combines the BERT model with transparency obligation practices, which ensures the assurance of transparency dimensions throughout the entire LLM life cycle. An experiment is performed with a source code dataset to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed approach. The result shows an average accuracy of 69% for the chosen model in vulnerability detection. Moreover, the transparency obligation practice is effectively implemented through the entire lifecycle of the LLM model towards trustworthy AI-enabled system development.