@article{wang2024anvil,
  title={ANVIL: Anomaly-based Vulnerability Identification without Labelled Training Data},
  author={Wang, Weizhou and Liu, Eric and Guo, Xiangyu and Lie, David},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16028},
  year={2024}
}

# Abstract:
Supervised learning-based software vulnerability detectors often fall short due to the inadequate availability of labelled training data. In contrast, Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4, are not trained on labelled data, but when prompted to detect vulnerabilities, LLM prediction accuracy is only marginally better than random guessing. In this paper, we explore a different approach by reframing vulnerability detection as one of anomaly detection. Since the vast majority of code does not contain vulnerabilities and LLMs are trained on massive amounts of such code, vulnerable code can be viewed as an anomaly from the LLM’s predicted code distribution, freeing the model from the need for labelled data to provide a learnable representation of vulnerable code. Leveraging this perspective, we demonstrate that LLMs trained for code generation exhibit a significant gap in prediction accuracy when prompted to reconstruct vulnerable versus non-vulnerable code. Using this insight, we implement ANVIL, a detector that identifies software vulnerabilities at line-level granularity. Our experiments explore the discriminating power of different anomaly scoring methods, as well as the sensitivity of ANVIL to context size. We also study the effectiveness of ANVIL on various LLM families, and conduct leakage experiments on vulnerabilities that were discovered after the knowledge cutoff of our evaluated LLMs. On a collection of vulnerabilities from the Magma benchmark, ANVIL outperforms state-of-the-art line-level vulnerability detectors, LineVul and LineVD, which have been trained with labelled data, despite ANVIL having never been trained with labelled vulnerabilities. Specifically, our approach achieves 1.62× to 2.18× better Top-5 accuracies and 1.02× to 1.29× times better ROC scores on line-level vulnerability detection tasks.

